we kind of do this cloud thing a lot
over the last 20 years we've had the
privilege to work alongside some of the
greatest cloud founders to ever do it
we are never done at bessemer
there are over a thousand unicorns so we
created the centaur
for cloud businesses that reach 100
million dollars in annual recurring
revenue
what is a true measure of an enduring
business we at bessemer like to pride
ourselves as being the first call
partner how do i help this company
fulfill its potential
there isn't one single way of building a
100 million dollar ar business your act
ii think about act 2 sooner than you
think how big of a vision do you have
[Music]
please welcome bessemer venture partners
samir delakia mary dinofrio and elliott
robinson
[Applause]
good morning
look at this
thank you gentlemen
wow it is uh really exciting to be back
with you all here live on stage at
saster
for the last decade the best mercedes
cloud report has kind of served as the
industry's definitive document
when it comes to telling you where the
cloud economy is going and for the
founders and your startups and teams in
the room giving the insights and best
practices to help you scale your
business and become a cloud giant
now we're all living through some really
kind of dynamic times and things are
still changing day to day it almost
seems like hour to hour so before we
jump into the report i'm really excited
to share a big change on the bessemer
end and that's that our dear friend
samir delakia has decided to join us on
the investment team after years
of leadership as a ceo operator and
board advisor at some of the best cloud
companies out there syngrid twilio
pagerduty and more
thanks so much ellie thank you guys i'm
so excited to be here uh for the state
of the cloud report because i have
always been out there with you all
every year literally for the last seven
years here at saster
and i always look forward to this the
state of the cloud report it is the
industry standard way of understanding
where we are in our industry and i
always love the insights that we're
coming
now i know this year's
report's a little bit different than
other years and i think we're moving a
conversation from one mythical creature
to another
that's very true that's very true samir
last year when we came to saster for our
state of the cloud report we talked to
you about how to build a cloud unicorn
this year however we're talking to you
about how to build a cloud centaur 100
million dollar ar business which we
think is the sign of an enduring
business
and on our pathway to share how to build
a cloud centaur
i'm going to start with the first
section going over the macro
samir is going to take us through cloud
fundamentals and how cloud has
continuously penetrated the broader
economy
and elliot's going to go to one of our
our highlights every year which are
yearly predictions so let's go ahead and
dig in
i know what you must be feeling out
there as cloud executives cloud founders
and and that's pressure inflation's on
the rise interest rates are on the rise
and meanwhile there's a backdrop of a
compressing public market
the bvp nasdaq emerging cloud index
which is the public benchmark of cloud
software performance has actually
contracted by more than 40 percent
year-to-date
and with that backdrop of a compressing
public market what we've seen is that
there's been increased conservatism in
the private funding markets vcs like us
are funding businesses and cloud
businesses at reduced rates as a matter
of fact vc funding dropped by 23
quarter over quarter in the second
quarter of 2022
combining this macro pullback with
conservatism in the private funding
markets has led to a pullback in private
valuations as well
every year bessemer is very proud to put
together the cloud 100 with with forbes
and salesforce ventures and it
represents the hundred best cloud
companies in the world every year
even for this really elite cohort the
best and brightest multiples have
started to decline
from 2016 to 2021 we saw a huge run-up
from 9x to 34x arr in their last private
funding round however in 2022 we saw a
contraction by 11 to an average of a 30
times multiple though even that might be
anchored by transactions that took place
in 2020 and 2021
and turning to the public markets again
the compression that we've seen in
public multiples is actually starker
with greater amplitude
at times in 2020 and 2021 the average
bvp nasdaq emerging cloud index company
was actually trading for 25 times pretty
incredible
now we're all the way back to eight
times
and in that period of compression what
the market has begun to value has
changed
first it was a premium on growth above
almost all else and now it's a premium
on profitability
investors like us look at efficiency
score and at bessemer we love to look at
the bvp efficiency score which is arr
growth plus free cash flow margin and
for public companies where that sum adds
to more than 40 percent they're earning
a 1.5 times higher average trading
multiple in the public markets
now i know there's a lot more that we
can say about the public markets and
about the macro backdrop but there are
two things we really want to leave you
with
first in the context of all this
compression you can really see just how
hard it is to build a billion dollar let
alone 10 billion business in the public
markets they're only 25
and they include
at least cloud household bins like adobe
which had obviously a huge transaction
today
zoom and datadog
and the other thing we want to highlight
which tamir's now going to expound on is
that the underlying fundamentals of
cloud businesses remain relatively
strong compared to previous pullbacks
as a matter of fact in the public
markets the average um cloud company
growth rate is still 35 year over year
i'll go ahead and turn it to samir for
our next section awesome thanks mary
thanks so you know uh as mary just said
we got a great grounding on where we are
in the state of the cloud market today
i'm going to try to zoom us out give us
a big picture of you and the thing i
want to remind everyone of is just how
incredible our sas model is
fundamentally the recurring revenue
nature of the model our ability to
efficiently go and build software and
have it delivered out to customers and
create value is still an extraordinary
business model in fact at bessemer we
would say
it's the greatest model in the history
of the world there's a reason uh that
our businesses grow as quickly as they
do and are valued as as much as they are
uh and and so despite the contractions
that we've seen in the public markets uh
to valuation multiples that some might
argue and i would probably agree more
normalized levels over a longer period
of time if you're to look at them
we just want to remind everybody
entrepreneurs and investors alike this
is
an extraordinary business model our
cloud industry is as strong as it has
ever been and if you look at the
performance of cloud companies even now
despite all the turbulence in the public
markets you'll see
extraordinary performance so let me see
if i can click there uh the cloud 100
cohort that mary described for this year
cloud
the average growth rate this is the
average cloud 100. the average growth
rate is a hundred percent year over year
the top quartile is 120
year-over-year that's extraordinary i
would have guessed more like 50 60 maybe
100 to 120 percent contextualize that by
realizing that of the cloud 100 over 70
of these folks are already at 100
million of ar scale so you combine the
growth
with that kind of uh scale on that
growth and it just is an amazing proof
point for everyone of just how strong
cloud fundamentals are how strong these
cloud businesses are
so to any of you out there working at
one of these cloud 100 companies
congratulations you are building an
extraordinary business in a very
challenging time
and you know we should all we should all
be so lucky those are incredible growth
rates now
let me let me zoom back out of there and
give you a bigger picture still on where
we are in the long journey of cloud and
sas adoption in the enterprise now for
those who've been around this industry a
long time like me i've been doing this
for 25 years now cloud for the last
decade plus
there's a time when we really wondered
what would be the penetration rate of
cloud and sas into enterprise i.t spend
and we were in single digit percentages
for a long time
and here we are now 20 years into this
journey and what you'll see is that we
are now at nearly half nearly half of
software revenue now
is cloud first
that's a pretty extraordinary shift uh
over this period of time so uh what i
would say to you is look we this what we
all do here in this room our industry
collectively is critically important and
we would argue at bessemer we actually
said on stage here at sastra a couple
years ago this is as important as the
electric grid to the functioning of our
global economy let me unpack that that's
a pretty big statement so if you take
the size and importance and scope of our
industry now it's nearly half a trillion
dollars
half a trillion dollars in the cloud and
of course we are absolutely disrupting
and have been well underway disrupting
the software market
legacy on-premise software that's been
happening for some time but i would
assert that the bigger impact it's to
the 4.4 trillion dollars that is spent
in technology broadly at every layer of
the stack
literally down to the chips and the
hardware that is being built to run the
cloud infrastructure on which everything
runs the networking the security
you name it it's all being rebuilt and
redesigned
for the cloud
and we're just getting started if you if
you take that further we would argue
that
the cloud is literally going to be
impacting every single aspect of the
global economy 96 trillion dollars
worldwide in the years ahead and some of
you in the audience might say actually
and i probably agree with you we're
already there just think about the last
two years of our pandemic and what we
all just went through and imagine how
hard it would have been to manage
through
the shutdowns the work from homes remote
work hybrid work if we didn't have the
cloud
if we didn't have amazing apps like zoom
and slack and so many of these other
things they allowed us as a global
economy to continue to move and function
so
we and we see this by the way as
individuals consumers you show up at a
restaurant
it's going to be powered by sas software
you call your
plumber they're gonna have they're gonna
have an ipad running some software on it
you go to the local salon to get a
haircut they're running their business
with sas software you want to call for a
mental health check-in with your
therapist it's gonna be online powered
by some sas software the cloud is
showing up everywhere and it doesn't
matter consumer or business regardless
of industry regardless of function
the cloud is impacting and touching
every bit of our global economy and so i
would say to you as a room again
collectively the impact that we are
having in the world is profound and you
should be really proud that what we do
every day day in day out allows our
world to be a safer more resilient and
more stable place
so that's what we love about where we've
come on this cloud journey over the last
20 years when you zoom out from our what
we're feeling in this day this quarter
this month
we're just getting started we have so
much more to go and bessemer loves cloud
we have for a long time we will for a
long time and there are some really
exciting trends coming up that we see
that drive our love of the cloud and my
partner and friend elliot robinson is
going to tell us more about those thank
you samir thank you
if you can't tell by now as a firm we do
love the cloud and this is my favorite
part of every year's report because
this is where we ever actually leverage
the experts the founders uh the teams
the developers and the end users then we
put our collective heads together and
figure out okay mary's walked us through
the backdrop we've talked about how much
room we have to go but what are the
trends and the predictions that are
going to drive the next decade or two
and beyond of the cloud
let's dive in so
last year i came here and we talked
about uh the power of the second act and
the power of payments in the form of a
case study uh with shopify
so what we're seeing now is that the new
generation and the next generation of
staff startups samir mentioned
in the spa industry a great company
called gloss genius which is a sas
platform for spas and salons
if we pick out rapbook in the
entertainment and production space we're
actually seeing them take their second
act pulling it forward as their opening
act and actually
offering a wide array of fintech
solutions whether it be lending payments
payroll banking and card issuance
so another thing that we talked about in
our prediction section was um how cloud
is being purchased i was at a session
yesterday here at saster and i think the
title was don't sell software like it's
2012. i love that message you can't do
that anymore the pandemic has actually
furthered that message
and we talked about the power of the
cloud marketplace it's actually becoming
one of the most natural places for sas
sellers and sas buyers to transact last
year i predicted in front of this crowd
that we're gonna see somewhere between
four and five billion dollars of gmv go
through public cloud marketplaces we've
actually surpassed that
and powered and partnered with tackle i
o the leading uh sas company to help you
get your product placed priced and
positioned to transact in the
marketplace where we can actually
predict
that in 2023 we're gonna see north of 10
billion dollars of gmv going through the
marketplace and by 2025
we can predict 50 billion dollars of gmv
to go through the marketplace so the
takeaway here is that we're at a point
where the cloud is actually helping us
sell more cloud and we're really excited
about that prediction
um
i also mentioned last year something
that satya said ceo of microsoft he was
on an earnings call in the heart of the
pandemic and he said you know we've seen
two years of digital transformation take
place in the last two months
if you go back to the earnings call that
microsoft just did satya gave us an
updated view he said look our customers
are certainly tightening their belts
in the face of some kind of global macro
uncertainty some things around marketing
hiring we're looking at that a little
bit closer but the one area that he
noted is not seeing any pullback is in
it spend
automation software and the demand for
more and more digital transformation
projects and tools so what we're really
excited about particularly in
inflationary environment we believe like
satya and the folks at microsoft do that
software is actually a deflationary
force
so whether it's labor shortage supply
chain remote work and collaboration we
believe these are the five biggest areas
where sas and cloud software is going to
help close the productivity gap
if you drill down a little bit further
into this
we can look at
oh sorry somehow i
yikes do we know how to go back
somehow i've lost a slide here
uh
okay we'll we'll just go from here
one of the other trends that we're
seeing is that um you know in 2006 when
i started my venture capital career i
would meet global founders let's say
they're based in emea or apac
and they would say hey we're two years
into the journey we've got our customer
cohort we're learning a lot and i'm here
in san francisco or silicon valley to
raise capital to bring my my product and
my go to market to north america to the
u.s market
but as the global cloud maturity uh
really spawns into these new areas
what we're actually seeing is that
companies are staying local longer
great companies like mambu and the
banking space they're they're doing
purpose-built solutions that take care
of everything compliance gdpr forex
pricing seasonality in their own market
and they're waiting much longer to come
to the north american market and then in
some of the horizontal cases companies
like canva i know we talked about adobe
a little bit we've actually see them
stay in their local market and then take
those deep rooted insights having stayed
a little bit longer and they go hyper
local when they enter into north america
latam and beyond
and what does this all mean
this is my second day here at saster i'm
just fascinated by the amount of
international linkedin emails uh
you know notes that i've gotten in my
inbox and what we're seeing is the
ability to scale a huge cloud giant in
every corner every region of the world
is growing mary mentioned our annual
cloud 100 list we just debuted it and
what you see here on the slide is these
these companies are being built and
scaled all over the globe and when we
talk about companies and scale companies
that are crushing it
i'm going to bring mary back up to
introduce the newest part of the say the
cloud experience the centaur report
so for our last and final prediction
it's that 2022 is the year of the
centaur
when the term unicorn was originally
coined 10 years ago it only referred to
14 total private companies
but especially with the combination of
the bull market for 13 years and
especially 2020 2020 and 2021 with vast
multiple expansion and quantums of
capital being poured into the venture
ecosystem the unicorn herd expanded
wildly to over a thousand unicorns
so what we tried to do at bessemer is
coin a new term that's more tied to
fundamentals to business fundamentals to
orient ourselves the market and the
ecosystem more broadly towards measures
that are very much in control by a
business
and that's the centaur a hundred million
dollar ar business
which we think is a signal of an
enduring business
and why is that
that's because that in order to build to
100 million dollars you need three
things
a scalable go-to-market
strong product market fit and a large
and growing customer base
the things that drive you to a hundred
million also make you durable and
resilient
and what's important is that in
bessemer's research we have yet to find
a single centaur that is not endured in
some form
we've also been really really lucky to
have partnered with many of these
centaurs as they've gone through their
growth journeys from one to a hundred
including public companies like
hashicorp and toast and private
companies like zapier and yappo
so if i've managed to convince you that
becoming a centaur is important and and
driving to 100 million is really what
you should be looking for
the question on your mind might be well
how do i do it
fortunately or unfortunately there's no
single trick there's no single playbook
for how to get to 100 million that's
going to be really particular to your
business your operations your customers
your go to market strategy
but there are a few a few strategies
that we've seen at bessemer really work
first of all expanding tam through
product and geographic expansion
second incorporating product like growth
strategies and third using market
evangelism is a core piece of your go to
market
with that in mind samir elliott and i
are going to turn to centaur case
studies and hopefully you can learn from
the pathways for these businesses is
driving from one to 100 and beyond we're
going to go ahead and start with samir's
uh overview of service titan awesome
thanks mary yeah so all of the uh sas
giants uh vertical sas and otherwise
that bessemer's back have employed this
first strategy of having a second act
and by the way as you'll hear soon a
third act of fourth act and a fifth act
uh and and that we call it leapfrogging
from the first to the second to the
third and the fourth so we're going to
talk about leapfrogging
service titan i have the privilege of
being on the board here at service site
an extraordinary company number seven on
the cloud 100
list this year founded back in 2013
focused on one particular vertical
industry uh the plumbing industry with
one particular product solution on their
in their platform and uh the two
founders vahe and ara two amazing guys
both of their parents actually worked in
these trades so they had deep deep
customer empathy for the problems that
they faced and went and built solutions
purpose built for that and as a result
as you might suspect amazing product
market fit and from that product market
fit uh they starting with plumbing they
realize oh there there are these other
two industries heating and cooling
called hvac and then later to uh
electrical and they're like oh these
these other verticals they share the
exact same problems so let's go start
selling our platform to them and then as
time rolled on they realized hey there
are more problems than the first ones
that we can solve for our customers in
plumbing hvac and electrical so they
started to build new solutions started
with fintech stuff like payments and
financing then they moved to other
functions we call them that's a server
side in our pro products so marketing
capabilities payroll capabilities
and then they just kept growing now we
have this big broad platform that is
serving these three vertical industries
and they realize well there's so many
other trades in the home and commercial
services industry that our platform
could be applied to and so they went
into chimney and garage maintenance
residential water
uh you know then lawn and greens
landscaping pest control and on and on
and on and so they just keep layering on
these acts and that's what's allowed the
company to continue to scale well well
past
the 100 million of ar mark and and
become a centaur so you know the point
of this is if you start with a product
in a particular market think about where
could i how can i solve more problems
for that original icp customer and then
once you've done that think about how do
i go take this platform to more and more
verticals we have found that to be
one of many great recipes for success in
growing and scaling your business so
with that let me hand it over to elle to
talk about calendly
so as you heard mary and samir mention
there's tons of different pathways to
reach your 100 million dollar milestone
you know i was just talking about trends
obviously in the last few years round
sizes got bigger
funding pace got a little bit bigger but
bootstrapping is one of the best ways to
instill operational excellence and
efficiency in your company from the very
beginning we found that an atlanta-based
calendly led by a great dynamic founder
tope oatana
countley is a case study of what can
happen when four key growth strategies
play together in concert
so first
if you go to calenly.com today and you
go to their pricing section they still
tell their always free product that
product led growth motion is what always
keeps the virality of their user base
and their product flying they're very
transparent about pricing you can see
right there and they make it really
seamless and there's a bunch of avenues
to convert the free tier users and to
paid users
they were really smart about listening
to the market and their end users about
how to prioritize and build the product
roadmap
they pulled those insights in and by
building the roadmap that way it was
able to open up new tam opportunities
and powerful new use cases but they were
also smart in realizing that we actually
don't need to build everything there's
some great other sas companies that we
can partner with and integrate with so
for example as the platform expanded
they partnered with uh stripe so they
could process payments and transactions
for their customers in their environment
they leveraged zapier to make sure that
workflows were more and more automated
as the platform got more
complex
and they partner with zoom to make sure
once you finally get that really hard to
schedule meeting together one-on-one or
with your team you can seamlessly
transition into that zoom environment
and collaborate
and then lastly plg is great
it allows you to scale really
efficiently
but at some point most sas companies
decide to layer on enterprise sales and
calendly did this exceptionally well
what's really surprising if you just
look at the last year alone their
enterprise segment that's defined as
customers spending a hundred grand or
more even into the seven figures it's
grown
10x in the last year alone now think
about that they were met with some
skepticism when they first debuted
because they said do you really want to
go up against microsoft the office suite
and google and look where they are today
i do want to take one quick second to
just really reflect on how powerful of a
company and boot trapping has been for
them it took them seven years
but calendly scaled from zero million of
error to 70 million of ar having only
raised 550 000
so when you think about you know their
their uh journey to centaur status in
the summer of last year 2021 they
reached centaur status but they did it
with a really special designation as a
high-growth centaur and they were doing
it profitably
so with that i'm going to bring up mary
to talk about our last case study
and for our last centaur case study i'd
love to highlight launch darkly which
was number 34 on this year's cloud 100
in his world's leading feature
management platform
they achieved their centaur status their
100 million dollar arr milestone through
a thoughtful combination of product
excellence and market evangelism
when launch darkly first began in 2014
developers loved and were delighted by a
new easy way to deploy and manage
feature flags which was at the time
considered an aspirational practice in
software development usually reserved
for large enterprises that could spare
the development and maintenance
resources required
today however
feature management is considered a best
practice in the de facto in ci cd and
software development which launched
darkly helped to make so through four
different strategies
first it built a delightful product that
developers love to use and shared really
actively with their communi in their
communities
second developer word of mouth continued
and the company was able to evangelize
its product within developer communities
continually hitting them with the values
to productivity and developer ease of
use
next given that developer acquisition
and customer penetration they deepened
it more fulsomely with additional
product offerings
such as data insights for connectivity
suite and experimentation
and lastly once already and customers it
was able to deepen the customer
deepen the customer depth and open the
customer aperture as they added more and
more products onto their platform
today the customer segments that they
serve are vast and customers are as
varied as truecar ibm atlassian price
and priceline and even domino's pizza
now that i think about it i'll go ahead
and turn it to samir to wrap us up
awesome
thank you mary so
you know these three case studies
hopefully you take away
a couple things number one all three of
them
had a maniacal focus on their end
customer and serving their needs and
solving their problems and number two
they all had many acts they all started
in one place and then added more added
more go-to-market motions more products
more verticals that they served and so
as you go back home reflect on how is my
company doing those two things and if
not what could i go do to accomplish
that but we also shared those three case
studies because um
despite all the doom and gloom and the
meta in the in the markets and the macro
um we want you to realize
you can go be our next centaur case
study you can go build the next 100
million dollar ar business regardless of
the macro our friend and partner uh
byron deiter was just reminding us the
other day actually
three of our firm's best investments
ever
were made in the great recession in 2008
and 2009 twilio shopify and pinterest
and so
you got this you can do this regardless
of the macro cloud fundamentals are as
strong as they have ever been so to all
of you out there that are working on
this now um we'd say first off we want
to celebrate the centaurs who have
already made it there are 47 that were
announced um just this in this year
across every category in sas that you
can imagine if you're out there working
on one of these companies
congratulations keep at it way more to
go do and scale
extraordinary accomplishment
but i would also say for the rest of you
whether you're just getting started in
your centaur building journey
or you all are knocking on the door we
want to say we applaud you
we want to say we are inspired by you
and we want to say we'd love to help you
so we have a whole set of resources uh
available if you go to bbb.com
cloud lots of lots of benchmarks and
data and tools to help you think about
your journey and how you're going to get
there but we believe
in the cloud i hope you take away the
cloud fundamentals are as strong as they
have ever been you can reference the 100
plus percent year-over-year growth rates
of companies at 100 million at scale
this is a great industry that we all
work in number two remember cloud
adoption is everywhere
regardless of vertical industry
regardless of function being applied to
regardless of the geography that they
are serving cloud adoption is everywhere
and it is only accelerating and i would
say finally it is a privilege that all
of us get to do to work in this industry
that is so increasingly important to the
global economy
[Music]